Refresh Wave documentation (#516)
seqeralabs/wave: docs/nextflow.mdx

---
title: Nextflow integration
---

You can use Wave directly from your Nextflow pipelines, with full support for private repositories, container freezing, and conda packages.

This feature requires Nextflow `22.10.0` or later.

You can use Wave can in any Nextflow pipeline by adding the following snippet to your `nextflow.config` file:

```groovy
wave {
    enabled = true
}

tower {
    accessToken = '<your_access_token>'
}
```

:::tip
The use of the Seqera access token is not mandatory. However, it grants the following additional capabilities:

- Access to private repositories
- More API requests than is permitted for anonymous users
:::

For the entire list of configuration options, see [Configuration options](#configuration-options).

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: Can we move limitations to the bottom? I'm not sure that it needs to be (almost) the first thing that the reader sees.

If you want to store Wave containers in your own container repository use the following settings in the Nextflow configuration file:

```groovy
wave.build.repository = 'example.com/your/build-repo'
wave.build.cacheRepository = 'example.com/your/cache-repo'
```

The first repository is used to store the built container images. The second one is used to store the individual image layers for caching purposes.

When launching the pipeline execution, Wave allows Nextflow to access the private container repositories defined in your pipeline configuration, by using the credentials stored in the Seqera Platform credentials manager.

[credentials]: /platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/credentials/overview
[pat]: /platform_versioned_docs/version-23.4.0/api/overview#authentication
</details>

### Build Nextflow modules containers

Wave can build and provision container images on-demand for your Nextflow pipelines.

<details>
<summary>**Build Nextflow modules containers**</summary>

> To enable this feature, add the Dockerfile of the container to be built in the [module directory][module-directory] where the pipeline process is defined. When Wave is enabled, it automatically uses the Dockerfile to build the required container, upload to the registry, and it uses the container to carry out the tasks defined in the module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable this feature, add the Dockerfile of the container to be built in the [module directory][module-directory] where the pipeline process is defined. When Wave is enabled, it automatically uses the Dockerfile to build the required container, upload to the registry, and it uses the container to execute the script defined in the process.
```
